---
layout: post
title: My Experience with Bloc
feature-img: "img/sample_feature_img.png"
---
Once I realized web development was the way to go, I had to chose the means of picking up the skills. It seems like everyone and their mom created a developer curriculum. My old millionaire neighbor. The sketchy university near my work. A website that offers it for free (but encourages upgrading to the premium version, which basically gave you a more responsive email contact). Option overload is definitely a thing, and it took four excruciatingly long months to make a decision. I was extremely close to pulling the trigger with an in-person program called General Assembly. But the price tag and the requirement to quit my job ended up being too daunting. I initially wrote off an online program, and doing an online program part time seemed especially distant. But the reviews were extremely positive for Bloc, and I decided I could endure my job for 6-8 more months, so here we are.

I was extremely eager to get started with Bloc. As I mentioned, I'd spent weeks and weeks thinking and worrying and becoming increasingly restless, and I'd already put in around 25 hours of beginner HTML/CSS learning. So after bugging the program director I was able to get my start date pushed up to June 12. I remember waking up well before my alarm went off, feeling super excited to go to Bloc.com and be greeted with a program syllabus rather than a marketing front page. I hit that ground running, and was kinda dismayed when I finished the first week assignments by Wednesday.

That eagerness quickly disappeared by the end of week two, as I trudged through the Git lesson. I naively thought I'd never face any challenges as long as I put in the time and effort, and handled my first roadblock pretty ignorantly. One of my biggest weaknesses when it comes to learning is getting impatient when I don't initially pick something up. I get restless anytime I feel stalled. This stress had been largely absent in the two years post-college, and it wasn't something I enjoyed feeling again. I downloaded all the PowerPoints and told myself I'd revisit them in the future. I earned that blue checkmark and was finished with week two, and my satisfaction at seeing the assignment checked off the list quickly disappeared. 

I started to feel this confusion more frequently in the coming weeks, as the Bloc Jams assignment moved into more complicated Javascript. And I handled this frustration the same way I always have, avoiding the breaks and rushing through. It wasn't until my mentor called me out on this bad habit where I figured I'd need to make adjustments if I wanted to get through the program. When I reached something I didn't understand, the frustration and restlessness would still arise, but this time I'd take a break. I'd close my computer and throw on my running shoes. I'd contemplate the issue during the run, and more often than not I'd realize my problem and return with a fresh perspective. I started clearing my Saturdays, and dug into the code I'd previously written rather than look at the next checkpoint on the curriculum. It's been a few weeks since I started handling roadblocks this way, and I already feel I'm achieving a greater retention. I need to maintain this patience going forward, because there's still a long way to go.
