---
layout: post
title: My Goals as a Developer
---

Obviously, it's crucial to make goals in your career. Keeping an eye on the peak makes the climb more bearable. Or something like that. I realized I had zero goals in my accounting career nor did I feel any inspiration to think ahead. If that didn't prove I had zero passion for my career, I don't know what would. But here I am at the start of my development career, and the future is an exciting prospect that I no longer avoid. I'm not resigned to a cubicle farm for the next fifty years. I don't need necessarily need to endure a drab office environment, working the same schedule that I assumed a business degree resigned me to. And most importantly, I have goals!!

Landing that first job seems like a lofty goal by itself. There's barriers to entry whenever one switches career tracks, and it's undoubtedly daunting. The fact that Bloc offers a six-month job placement guarantee should be encouraging, but it makes that next job seem more far away. Six months seems like a long time to be hitting the job search. Sending resumes, going to networking events, refining my skills and taking coding challenges...for six months. And some still don't find jobs after this point. Looking at the statistics for other schools, their six-month placement rate averages around 85%. Again, that should be encouraging. The doubtful part of me focuses on the 15% figure, and I worry I'll fall into this category. I believe in Bloc and I'm clearly determined to make the switch, so I maintain faith that'll achieve this initial goal.

Secondly, I want to continually learn in my off-time. There's an ever-growing body of knowledge regarding coding languages. Overwhelming, yes, but I want to challenge myself to make extra-curricular learning a part of my routine. I want to research and practice new languages, and though I may become a master of none, I hope to have a diverse tool belt at my disposal. Similarly, I hope to build side projects and be active on GitHub. The amount of content on GitHub is overwhelming (like everything else in this field), but I hope to one to contribute.  

Finally, I hope to one day work as freelance developer, or at the very least, be able to work remotely. As mentioned above I have a disdain for the cubicle life. Seeing my other friends get the freedom to work from home/trendy coffee shops is the worst, but now that I switched from the accounting trajectory to the developer career, this lifestyle is attainable. I realize this won't come with my first job, nor would I want it to, but one day I'd love the freedom to work and learn on my own time.
